hey this is pressed tell Walker and
you're watching mind your decisions
here's a fun problem that was emailed to
me we begin with the square and a point
in the interior of the square will drop
four line segments from this interior
point where each line segment connects
to a midpoint of one of the square sides
now we've divided the square into four
regions the area of the southwest region
is 16 square centimeters then going
clockwise the area of the next region is
20 square centimeters and then 32 square
centimeters the question is what's this
final area this diagram is not drawn to
scale and it was distributed with the
tagline that you should be able to solve
this I think
reowww in Romania for emailing me this
problem can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for a solution so a
key principle in this problem is the
formula for the area of a triangle which
is equal to 1/2 the base times the
height so if you have a right triangle
where one of its legs is the base and
the other leg is the height the area of
this triangle is 1/2 times the base
times the height but this is true for
any triangle it doesn't have to be a
right triangle so all of the following
triangles actually have the same area
because they have these same dimensions
for the base and the height so how can
we use this principle to solve the
problem well go back to our diagram now
connect the interior point to the four
corners of the square this is going to
divide the square
to eight different regions I'll color
code these regions to make it a little
easier to keep track of the areas now
focus on just these two triangles which
are along the bottom side of the square
triangles with the same base which is
half of the square side and the same
height which is the distance from the
square side to the interior point will
have the same area because they have the
same dimensions for base and height so
these two triangles will have the same
area and a label the area as a well do
this for all of the sides of the square
well consider the next side of the
square because these two will have the
same base and the same height these two
triangles will have the same area and a
label this area by the variable B will
do the same thing for this side of the
square these two triangles will have the
same area and I'll denote it by the
letter C now we continue to the fourth
side of the square and these two
triangles will have the same area and
I'll denote this area by the letter D
now how can we solve for the unknown
area well let's take these variables
with the given information a plus B is
equal to 16 B plus C is equal to 20 and
C plus D is equal to 32 and we want to
solve for a plus D how can we do that
well notice that the quantity a plus B
plus the quantity C plus D is equal to
the quantity B plus C plus the quantity
a plus D in other words the sum of
opposite areas are equal so we know
three of these areas so we have 16 plus
32 is equal to 20 plus the unknown area
of a plus T we then solve that a plus T
is equal 16 plus 32 minus 20 which is
equal to 28 and that's the answer
now if you like this problem and wanted
a little bit more of a challenge I
previously discussed a challenge problem
for talented 5th graders in China we
have a parallelogram ABCD and you need
to find the area of the red triangle
remarkably one student solved this in
under a minute and it uses the same
principles that I described in this
video did you figure out this square
problem thanks for watching this video
these math videos inspire and build
confidence for people around the world
and they've already accumulated over a
hundred million views I believe is
society truly valued mathematics we'd
have millions of subscribers and
billions of views so please help you can
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos watch and share all of mind your
decisions videos which is the best way
for more people to discover this channel
you can email me a puzzle or map topic
at presh and mind your decisions calm
and you can also support this channel
financially you can check out my books
which are linked in the video
description they're great for gifts and
you can also support this channel on
patreon to earn exclusive rewards thanks
for watching and thanks for your support